hello internet friends what is up it is
Sara I am here to talk to you today
about some camera basics this is going
to be part one of a four part series
just talking about things that really
would have helped me when I started out
in photo and video so today I am talking
about what camera should I buy this is a
question that many people have when they
are in that stage okay I like
photography I like video but I want to
take it beyond my iPhone or beyond you
know whatever I'm taking pictures with
so I am going to talk about four
different cameras and the first one is a
point-and-shoot camera the second is
like an action camera and select the
waterproof cameras you know like a GoPro
the third is going to be a DSLR and the
fourth is going to be a mirrorless
camera now if you know nothing about
cameras a lot of what I just said
probably sounded intimidating but that
is why I'm here I'm going to kind of
give you a brief overview of all these
different types of cameras and maybe you
can figure out which one is right for
you number one point-and-shoots
point shoots are small compact cameras
that kind of are you know a step up
above you know maybe your cell phone
camera or something they are small they
fit in your pocket the goal is
convenience you know nowadays
point-and-shoot cameras are actually
incredible some popular ones are the
Canon s1 the Sony rx100 Mark three and
the canon g7x now all these cameras are
going to be talking about I will put all
the links down below if you want to
check them out and I will put you know
anything from the cheaper ones to the
higher level more expensive you know
usually what you pay for is what you get
um but nowadays you can get some amazing
image quality from cheap cameras so
let's say you are like a mom and you
want to capture some great pictures and
great video of your kiddos running
around a point-and-shoot is great
because you don't have to worry about
focusing em
does it on its own you don't have to
worry about interchangeable lenses and
all of you know the other stuff that
comes with DSLRs or mirrorless cameras
you know one of the big differences
between a point and shoot and a DSLR
what I'm going to talk about later is
the DSLR you just you know buy the body
and then you can buy different lenses to
swap out from the body a point-and-shoot
you know it just comes ready to go right
out of the box you don't have to buy at
different lenses for different purposes
point you shirts range anywhere from
like a hundred dollars to the higher end
ones around like 700 800 but you can get
amazing quality around the 200 $300
range I personally have the Canon s110
it is a great like grab-and-go vlogging
camera I'll probably be looking into the
Sony rx100 Mark 3 it's a great camera it
does a great slow motion something that
you know I don't have on s110 but again
that's one 10 is cheap and the image
quality is great great pictures great
video moving on camera type number two
this is an action camera which I'm going
to talk about the GoPro today because I
feel like the GoPro will always be the
best waterproof action you know type
camera GoPros are kind of similar to
point-and-shoot cameras like what we
talked about earlier however you have
more options so GoPros usually range um
you know from the $200 range to the $500
range but where they get you is the
accessories you end up paying you know a
good amount of money on these different
types of plastic accessories that enable
you to stick it on cars
stick it on your heads to get you know
basically anywhere to get cool
perspective shots so the GoPro is like
an action camera um you know if you're
into sports if you're into music if
you're into travel you know if you're
swimming a lot and the GoPro may
you and you know you might be able to
just be okay with the GoPro because it
takes great pictures and it takes great
video it does a 4k now which is pretty
crazy at a you know decent framerate and
you can do you know slow-motion shots
with it there's several options like
that and it's just you know they're
great all-around cameras there are
several different accessories you can
buy to mount them pretty much on
anything if you have an idea of where to
put a GoPro there's probably a way to do
it so I'm moving on to camera three this
is a DSLR
what does DSLR stand for it stands for
digital DSLR stands for digital
single-lens reflex camera um basically a
DSLR is just the type of camera that
usually people go to when they want to
get more into photography
different brands for DSLRs and the two
most popular are Nikon and Canon I
personally shoot with Canon I love their
lens lineup and I love their bodies when
you're talking about DSLR cameras the
biggest so the biggest differences
between a DSLR and you know the
point-and-shoot and action cameras we
were talking about earlier is the fact
that you can have interchangeable lenses
and the bodies are bigger enabling for
usually more options so DSLRs are
usually broken up into two sections
it's the aps-c cameras and then the
full-frame cameras and all this means is
it's just a different type of sensor
that's in the camera now what the heck
is like the sensor of a camera basically
all you need to know is that's where all
the information for the picture or video
shooting is landing on inside the camera
I'm going to get more into the technical
details of these types of cameras in the
future videos but for now sake all you
need to know is the different types of
sensors is that the aps-c is a smaller
sensor the full-frame camera is a bigger
sensor full-frame cameras are more
expensive ranging from you know like
1600 to $3,000
and the aps-c cameras usually range from
like 500 to $1,500 so some of the
popular cameras on the aps-c side of
Canon is the t3 are the t5 I the 60d the
70d and the 7d some popular full-frame
cameras on the Canon line are the 60 and
the 5d Mark two and three you are going
to get a better picture and video
quality when compared to you know
point-and-shoots
something associated with DSLRs is the
depth of field and bokeh that basically
just means when the subject your taking
a picture of is in focus and then
everything in the background is blurred
out that comes along with the lenses
that you buy with the camera and a
different type of quality you buy so
DSLR cameras are great you know if
you're taking portraits if you're
wanting something nice nicer than a
point-and-shoot you know to take
pictures traveling and all that stuff I
own I've owned many Canon DSLRs if
you're just starting out in photography
and video I highly recommend to just buy
you know cheaper DSLR body and then
maybe get like one decent nice lens to
attach to it some of the cheaper popular
Canon DSLR cameras are the t3i the t5 I
and I think there's like a t4 I I don't
know but there has to be a t4 i if
there's a t3i and a t5 i but um any of
those types of cameras are great to
start out on I personally started on the
Canon 70d I love that camera it is a
fantastic camera and you can hit up you
know Amazon or the other other you know
online stores similar to that to check
out like specs of it and stuff and see
if it's right for you in the last camera
I want to talk about is the mirrorless
camera um this is kind of like new
ground for a lot of the camera companies
but they are so popular right now so I
just wanted to kind of explain what the
difference is between a DSLR and a
mirrorless camera
because they kind of look the same you
know they have the same functions
typically but there are several
differences between the two and if
you're just starting out in photo video
it can be confusing you know as to which
one you might want to buy this is the
first camera that we've talked about and
that I personally don't own so I can't
really show you a new video of it but
there is so much information on these
types of cameras out on the interwebs
that you can look up so let's talk about
some differences between the mirrorless
camera and DSLR and maybe figure out
which one is you know more right for you
one of the big things is the fact that
the DSLR has a mirror inside of it long
story short aren't taking a picture
here's the sensor here's the mirror the
image is coming through your lens
hitting this mirror and that image is
bouncing up to your optical viewfinder
so when you put the camera up against
your face you're seeing that image what
it looks straight through the lens
basically when you press the shutter
button you know click takes the picture
that mirror raises up for um you know
however long you have it set and that is
specific to the shutter speed which is
what I will talk about in a later video
but so that mirror raises up the image
is captured on to that sensor and then
the mirror closes so we are dealing with
mirrorless cameras hence the name near
list there is no mirror so it is
basically just you know when you take
off a lens
there's no mirror but it's just the
sensor so that means instead of an
optical viewfinder
what you have an idea sellar and in a
mirrorless camera you have a V F
viewfinder so you're viewing like an
electronic version of your image that is
being captured onto the sensor
okay cool Sara but like what's the
advantages of that or disadvantages of
that well basically when it comes to the
optical viewfinder in a DSLR camera
you're just seeing the image as you
would see it in normal life so if I'm
going to take a picture of my cat then
what I see through the optical
viewfinder video SLR is the same image
that I'm seeing
if the camera wasn't in front of my face
now if I was taking a picture of my cat
with my mirrorless camera basically what
I'm seeing through the viewfinder of the
EVF is exactly what the picture is going
to turn out so say if I'm in a dark room
and I really have to change all my
camera settings to make the picture turn
out brighter then I'm going to see how
the pictures going to turn out you know
I'm going to see the brighter picture in
the EVF but when I'm in the dark room
taking the picture with a DSLR then I'm
just seeing the dark image through my
optical viewfinder I'm not seeing the
final product of how the pictures going
to turn out on the camera whoo that was
probably really confusing and I hope I
made some type of sense of that if I
didn't apologies these types of cameras
do have interchangeable lenses just like
DSLRs but typically the body of a
mirrorless camera is smaller so maybe if
portability is a big thing for you maybe
look into a mirrorless camera mirrorless
cameras are super popular with video art
AFER's right now so if you're more if
you think you're going to be more into
the video stuff maybe look into
mirrorless cameras right now some
popular mirrorless azar the Panasonic
gh4 and these sony a7s both of these
shoot in a 4k resolution which is pretty
crazy the gh4 shoots like 4k resolution
natively which means you can just pop in
the SD card shoots a 4k the Sony a s7
shoots 4k externally so you have to have
an external recorder in order to record
4k typically you're going to be able to
shoot higher frames per second and video
as well on a mirrorless camera so you
probably don't know a lot about frames
per second now um but to briefly touch
on it basically the higher frame rate
you have in video the more you can slow
it down and post if you want that you
know slow motion feel to your videos so
say you're recording something at 60
frames per second that means if
timeline that you're editing in is 24
frames per second you can slow that 60
frames per second video down by 40% and
now that 60 frames per second turns into
24 frames per second so you get the
smooth motion it's not skipping any
frames and you get that cool slow motion
effect so I'm your les cameras you can
usually shoot a higher frame rate at
higher resolution a DSLR to popular
camera companies is talking about
earlier um Canon and Nikon or more in
the DSLR game you talk about mirrorless
I would check out companies like
Panasonic Sony Fuji film Oh
Samsung everyone forgets about Samsung
anyways oh yeah like I said earlier I'm
going to leave some links down below in
the description too to some of these
cameras that I'm talking about
personally I think a picture that comes
out of like a Canon 5d or Canon 60 with
a nice lens in front of it is always
going to be better than the image coming
out of like a mirrorless camera but
again nowadays the picture out of your
iPhone 6 is like incredible and almost
DSLR like so you're not going to be
disappointed with images that come out
of mirrorless cameras so I hope this
video helped you in some type of way and
figuring out what camera you should buy
hit that like and subscribe button I do
have three more of these videos coming
out that are going to help you in your
journey of being an awesome photographer
or videographer and if you have any
questions let me know I am here to
answer other than comment in the comment
section down below or you can tweet me
um you know any of that works follow me
on Instagram and hit that subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video thanks for watching guys
you